
== linear-algebra ==

This implements various linear algebra and other math operations. Much
of this code is originally from Jeff Siskind's QobiScheme.

=== Line segments ===

:(define-structure line-segment p q)
:(p l)
:(q l)
:(collinear? l1 l2)
:(point-on-line-segment? r l)
:(intersection-point l1 l2)
:(cross? l1 l2)
:(intersect? l1 l2)
:(line-tangent l)
:(normal-2d l)
:(line-segment-length l)
:(read-line-segments-from-file pathname)
:(write-line-segments-to-file line-segments pathname)

=== Vectors ===

:(x v)
:(y v)
:(z v)
:(dot u v)
:(cross-2d u v)
:(cross u v)
:(v+ u v)
:(v- u v)
:(k*v k v)
:(v*k v k)
:(k+v k v)
:(v+k v k)
:(v/k v k)
:(v* u v)
:(v/ u v)
:(v= u v)
:(rotate-90 u)
:(rotate-180 u)
:(rotate-270 u)
:(perpendicular? u v)
:(parallel? u v)
:(magnitude-squared v)
:(magnitude v)
:(unit v)
:(distance-squared u v)
:(distance u v)
:(clockwise-angle? u v w)
:(clockwise-or-same-angle? u v w)
:(append-vector vec1 vec2)

=== Matrices ===

:(matrix? v)
:(list->matrix l)
:(make-matrix m n . &rest)
:(make-3-by-3-matrix a11 a12 a13 a21 a22 a23 a31 a32 a33)
:(matrix-copy m)
:(matrix-rows a)
:(matrix-columns a)
:(matrix-ref a i j)
:(matrix-set! a i j x)
:(matrix-row-ref a i)
:(matrix-column-ref a j)
:(matrix-row-set! a i v)
:(vector->row-matrix v)
:(vector->column-matrix v)
:(m+ a b)
:(m- a b)
:(m+k m k)
:(k+m k m)
:(m*v a v)
:(transpose-matrix a)
:(outer-product f u v)
:(self-outer-product f v)
:(m* a b)
:(m*. a b)
:(m/. a b)
:(v*m v a)
:(k*m k m)
:(m*k m k)
:(m/k m k)
:(v*m*v v m)
:(determinant a)
:(invert-matrix a)
:(simplex a m1 m2 m3)
:(jacobi a)
:(eigenvalues a)
:(eigenvectors a)
:(vector->diagonal-matrix v)
:(identity-matrix n)
:(clip-eigenvalues a v)
:(eigenvector-angle1 m)
:(eigenvector-angle2 m)
:(left-pseudo-inverse m)
:(right-pseudo-inverse m)
:(ref-1d m a)
:(ref-2d m a b)
:(ref-3d m a b c)
:(ref-4d m a b c d)
:(ref-5d m a b c d e)
:(map-n-vector-2d f m n)
:(map-n-vector-3d f m n p)
:(map-n-vector-4d f m n p q)
:(map-n-vector-5d f m n p q r)
:(matrix-sum f n i)
:(matrix-sum-2d f m n i)
:(shape-matrix v c)
:(unshape-matrix m)
:(crop m x y w h)
:(matrix-ref-nd m . is)
:(matrix-3d-ref a s i j)
:(matrix-set-nd! m v . is)
:(matrix-3d-set! a v s i j)
:(map-matrix-nd f m n)
:(for-each-matrix-nd f m n)
:(map-matrix f m)
:(for-each-matrix f m)
:(map-matrix-3d f m)
:(for-each-matrix-3d f m)
:(map-n-matrix f i j)
:(for-each-n-matrix f i j)
:(map-indexed-matrix f m)
:(for-each-indexed-matrix f m)
:(map-indexed-matrix-3d f p)
:(for-each-indexed-matrix-3d f p)

=== Sparse matrices ===

:(define-structure sparse-matrix row column blank)
:(define-structure sparse-matrix-row element i up down)
:(define-structure sparse-matrix-column element j left right)
:(define-structure sparse-matrix-element value i up down j left right)
:(create-sparse-matrix blank)
:(sparse-matrix-ref sparse-matrix i j)

=== Traversal ===

:(every-n-2d p v w)
:(every-n-3d p v w x)
:(every-n-4d p v w x y)
:(every-n-5d p v w x y z)
:(product-2d f m n)
:(sum-2d f m n)
:(sum-3d f m n p)
:(sum-4d f m n p q)
:(sum-pairs f m)
:(vector-sum f n i)
:(vector-sum-2d f m n i)
:(sum-f f l)
:(sum-vector v)
:(sum-vector-f f v)

=== Statistics ===

:(list-mean p)
:(list-covariance l)
:(list-variance s)
:(list-skewness l)
:(list-kurtosis l)
:(list-correlation l1 l2)
:(vector-mean v)
:(vector-variance v)
:(vector-skewness v)
:(vector-kurtosis v)
:(vector-correlation v1 v2)
:(coefficient-of-bimodality v)
:(vectors-mean values)
:(vectors-variance mu values)
:(mahalanobis-distance val mu isigma)
:(frequencies l)

=== Misc ===

:*linear-algebra:epsilon*
:pi
:half-pi
:two-pi
:minus-pi
:two-pi/360
:three-sixty/two-pi
:(sqr x)
:(quadratic1 a b c)
:(quadratic2 a b c)

=== License ===

   Copyright 2010-2012 Purdue University. All rights reserved.

   Contact Andrei Barbu, andrei@0xab.com.

   This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
   it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as published by
   the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
   (at your option) any later version.
   This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
   but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
   MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
   GNU Lesser General Public License for more details.
   You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public License
   along with this program.  If not, see http://www.gnu.org/licenses.
__NOTOC__
